Welcome, in this video, we're going to further integrate Git Bash with Notepad++
by creating a bash alias to shorten the Notepad++ command.
Go to Git Bash and launch it. Within your user's home directory, we're going to use the current Notepad++ command
to create a new file called ".bash_profile". So type notepad++, space, .bash_profile.
Again, using this command must be executed from your user's home directory. Double check that line and then press enter.
When prompted to create a new file say "Yes". If this is not a new file, that is there is existing content here,
that's ok; just find a new line to add an alias. On my setup, this is a brand new file.
So I'm going to find a line and add the alias command. The alias syntax is:
alias; space; and then the alias name we want to use, that's our new command, in this case I'm going to call it npp
for a shorter version of Notepad++; followed by an equal sign; and then, enclosed in single quotes,
the command to be executed every time npp is called: in this case, "notepad++.exe"; space;
dash, and then a parameter "multiInst", so that's spelled dash, m-u-l-t-i-I-n-s-t; space; -nosession.
Double check that line, and now let's save our file. We can use the shortcut key control+s or go to "File", "Save".
Now that's done, let's close this file, control+w, and now, let's exit Notepad++: alt+f4.
Once we exit Notepad++, we are retuned to our terminal. To test out our alias, we need to exit out of Git Bash.
So type exit, that will close Git Bash, and now re-launch Git Bash.
Great. Now let's test out our alias. Type npp, now press enter. If everything went well, Notepad++ will launch.
Now that we've confirmed that, let's close Notepad++, and exit out of Git Bash.
We're going to integrate Notepad++ with Git.
To setup Notepad++ as the default editor within Git, let's launch Git Bash.
Once Git Bash is loaded, let's look at our current global configuration. We can use the command:
cat; space; ~, which is a shorthand for the user's home directory; / ; then .gitconfig.
Press enter; and so far we have only entered in the configuration information for the user's name and email address.
To set up Notepad++ as Git's default editor, use Git's config command to set that up:
git; space; config; space; --global, since we want this configuration to be at the user level;
followed by the configuration setting, "core.editor"; space; and then, in double quotes, the command we want to add for Notepad++:
which is "notepad++.exe"; space; and then our first parameter "-multiInst", that's spelled m-u-l-t-i-I-n-s-t;
space; and then our second parameter: "-nosession". Double check that line and then press enter.
With Git no news is good news, but let's verify to make sure.
Using the config command, we can type "git config --global --list".
And that will list all the known configuration from the global, or user, level.
Press enter. Great, core.editor is set to our notepad++ executable line.
Well let’s test this out. We can use the git config command again, to actually test out our core editor
by passing in the -e parameter, which will allow us to edit the configuration. So type "git config --global -e".
Git will then use the default editor to edit the configuration file. Double check the line, and then press enter.
If Git is configured correctly, Notepad++ will load with the ".gitconfig" file.
Now that we've confirmed this, let's close the file, control+w, and exit Notepad++, alt+f4.
Since we are done integrating Notepad++ with Git, we can exit Git Bash. Type the "exit" command and then enter.